in today's video I'm going to tell you
about a wonderful tree called the star
fruit tree its scientific name is Karen
bola I think it originated in the
Philippines
that's a tropical tree very sensitive to
freezes it's another one of my favorite
trees I have a lot of favorite fruit
trees grows quite well in Central
Florida South Florida no problem first
I'm going to tell you about growing it
in terms of propagating it growing it
from seeds is an easy and good way to do
it if you take the seed out of a fresh
picked piece of fruit it will be viable
for about two or three days I've read
and that that proves out in my
experimentation with it trying to grow
and proceed they seem to sprout with a
high high frequency just plant them
about two inches deep in good potting
soil and you'll see a sprout come up
within a week or so then grow it up
until it's got woody bark on it that's
what I do for about a half a year year
and then Transplant it into the ground
keep it protected and it will grow up it
is saw salt sensitive it does not like
salt water on its leaves it does not
require pruning really at all except for
some of the branches will die if I can
zoom in maybe on something see there's
some dead branches in here you just kind
of break those off you don't even really
need to have a trimmer to do that it is
a small tree it does not grow very tall
or wide which is really nice that's why
you can see I get it right next to my
house and it's not a problem at all
it's a fairly fast grower even though it
doesn't get very tall it in terms of the
fruit fruit is kind of it's hard to
describe the smell it's a very very
fragrant fruit smells really really good
it's exotic acid is what the smell is
and is what mostly consists of what it
mostly consists of the fruit is not
extremely sweet but it's sweet enough
and we love to eat it you know the thing
to do is is to cut it and and serve it
if you cut it sideways it has the shape
of a star which is why it's called star
fruit there are lots of varieties you
want to make sure that you pick a
variety that's sweet because there's a
lot of varieties it almost tastes like
water even a little bitter which is not
what you want at all so you want to be
careful try to really pick a variety
that is going to be sweet enough you
probably talked to your nursery or or
try to really pick out one that is a
little bit sweeter than the rest you can
see mine is just loaded with fruit even
though it's small it's more fruit than I
can possibly eat we give a lot of it
away and it ends up eventually some of
it falling on the ground no matter what
you do
this tree gives fruit in the wintertime
it's December right now mid December and
I'd say about half the fruit on the tree
is ripe it comes in you know a whole
ripe at once so it's kind of thing you
want to be ready to just pick it and and
give it so that you don't have have it
wasted well I hope you enjoyed this
video about the amazing star fruit tree
exotic star fruit tree we got plenty
more videos on our channel eat your
backyard please come check it out
subscribe we'd love to have you and I
hope you enjoy our future videos I'm
going to make another video that has to
do with preparing eating the star fruit
just the basics of that ok thanks for
watching